Reorganize the docs (#2164)
typst/packages: docs/typst.md

# Writing high-quality Typst files

No specific code style is mandated, but two spaces of indent and kebab-case for
variable and function names are recommended.

## Use package specification in imports

When writing a package, it is better to use the full package specification
when importing your own package, instead of relative imports. In other words,

> it is better to write:

Reviewer: What is the scope of this recommandation? It is explained below that this must be done for template files, and should be done for examples. But should I also do that for internal package files? I feel like this could be explained more precisely as I find it confusing right now.

Reviewer 2: For internal package files, that would lead to cyclic imports I think. But regardless it should definitely not be done as that unnecessarily couples the package to its namespace (meaning it doesn't work across both local and preview seamlessly).

(I'm not sure I understood correctly what you mean.)

Reviewer: What I mean is that the specific places where this recommandation applies is unclear.

```typ

> #import "@preview/my-package:1.0.0": my-function"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#import "@preview/my-package:1.0.0": my-function
```

```

than:

```typ

> #import "../lib.typ": my-function"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#import "../lib.typ": my-function
```

```typ
#import "package.typ": public
```

The user won't be able to call the `private` function, but can access the one
named `public` as they wish.

## Editable templates

When providing a template, it is often desirable to let users customize the
styles you provide. You may also want to let them override the default contents
you provide (for example, what elements are shown on the title page and how they
are displayed).

However, the way Typst templates currently work, this code often lives in the
library part of the package, that is not copied to the users project, and thus
cannot be modified to fit their needs. Only placeholder configuration and
content is generally part of the template code that the user can edit in their
own project.

There are still strategies to make your template as customizable as possible.

The main one is to always split styles and content. Template generally export a
global function that define styles using `show` and `set` rules, and wrap the
document body in some common structure (title page, abstract, outline, etc.). To
make it possible to customize the content provided by the template, they should

> actually be defined in another function that the styles. This way it is possible

Reviewer: ```suggestion
actually be defined in a separate function. This way it is possible
```

Maybe my suggestion isn't the best, but i feel like the current phrasing is really bad. For some reason I had to read the whole paragraph five times to understand this sentence.

Reviewer 2: I think the original just had a typo: that instead of than.

Reviewer 2: I like the benefits this approach brings, but afaik the ideal design is still in flux (currently discussed in the styling forge), so I'm not sure we should give this as a recommendation just yet. Also since almost no template does it this way. I would like to first see some published templates that work that way. Maybe I'm overcautious, not sure.

Author: You could imagine having a "curryfied" module: the template exports a single function that takes common configuration as a parameter, and returns two functions (one for its content, the other to apply styles) that can access this common configuration in their scope but also define there own arguments if needed. But maybe this is starting to be a bit too complex. :sweat_smile:

Reviewer 3: I agree, let's first experiment a little and then come back to it.

to first apply the template styles, customize them, and finally include the
common structure with modified styles.

```typ
#import "@preview/my-template:1.0.0"

// Apply the default styles
#show: my-template.default-styles
// Overwrite some of them
#set text(font: "Comic Neue")
// Show the template contents
#show: my-template.layout

The contents of the document go here.
```

Another solution is to provide a lot of different parameters to your main
template function to let the user override as much of the content and styles as

> they want. The downside here is that it hads a lot of complexity, both for users

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
they want. The downside here is that it adds a lot of complexity, both for users
```

# Writing high-quality Typst files

No specific code style is mandated, but two spaces of indent and kebab-case for
variable and function names are recommended.

> ## Use package specification in imports

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Use package specifications in imports
```

When writing a package, it is better to use the full package specification
when importing your own package, instead of relative imports. In other words,
it is better to write:

```typ
#import "@preview/my-package:1.0.0": my-function
```

than:

```typ
#import "../lib.typ": my-function
```

> This is especially true for example files. The reasoning here is that

Reviewer 2: Perhaps, this could be folded into the paragraph above? E.g. "When writing examples for a package, ..."

it should be possible to copy any provided file as is and start working
from that.

For template files, this is not only a recommendation but a requirement. Users
should never have to edit a project freshly created from a template to make it
compile.

This recommendation does not apply to files that are directly part of the package
however, as this could cause a cyclic import.

## Only exposing specific functions publicly

When writing your package, you will probably create internal functions
and variables that should not be accessible to the end user. However,

> Typst doesn't provide any keyword to indicate that a given binding should

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Typst currently doesn't provide any keyword to indicate that a given binding should
```

be public or private, as most other programming languages do.

> Fortunately, there is an easy pattern to select specific items to be public,
> and keep the rest private to your package: the entrypoint of the package
> should not contain any actual code, but simply import the items you want to
> be public from other files.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Fortunately, there is an easy pattern to select specific items to be public
and keep the rest private to your package: Instead of putting actual code 
into the entrypoint of the package, simply import the items you want to be 
public from other files.
```
I'd like to word this a bit less strongly.

Let's look at an example. Here is my `package.typ` file:

```typ
#let private(a, b) = a + b
#let public(a, b, c) = private(a, b) * private(b, c)
```

Then, if your package entrypoint is set to `lib.typ`, you can chose what
to export to the user by writing the following in `lib.typ`:

```typ
#import "package.typ": public
```

The user won't be able to call the `private` function, but can access the one
named `public` as they wish.

> ## Editable templates

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Template customization
```
